Experiments: multi node logging (#1246)
wandb/docs: content/guides/models/track/log/distributed-training.md

title: Log distributed training experiments
---

> During distributed training you train models using multiple machines or clients in parallel. You can use W&B to track distributed training experiments. Based on your use case, use one of the following methods to track distributed training experiments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During a distributed training experiment, you train a model using multiple machines or clients in parallel. W&B can help you track distributed training experiments. Based on your use case, use one of the following methods to track distributed training experiments:
```

> During distributed training you train models using multiple machines, such as GPUs or TPUs, in parallel. You can use W&B to track distributed training experiments. Based on your use case, use one of the following methods to track distributed training experiments:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During distributed training you train models using multiple machines or clients in parallel. You can use W&B to track distributed training experiments. Based on your use case, use one of the following methods to track distributed training experiments:
```
typically machines might be a cluster with multiple gpus or devices.

> During a distributed training experiment, you train a model using multiple machines or clients in parallel. W&B can help you track distributed training experiments. Based on your use case, use one of the following approaches to track distributed training experiments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During a distributed training experiment, you train a model using multiple machines or clients in parallel. W&B can help you track distributed training experiments. Based on your use case, track distributed training experiments using of the following approaches:
```
Trying to avoid "your use case, use"

During distributed training you train models using multiple machines or clients in parallel. You can use W&B to track distributed training experiments. Based on your use case, use one of the following methods to track distributed training experiments:

1. **One process**: Initialize W&B ([`wandb.init`]({{< relref "/ref//python/init.md" >}})) and log experiments ([`wandb.log`]({{< relref "/ref//python/log.md" >}})) from a single process. This is a common solution for logging distributed training experiments with the [PyTorch Distributed Data Parallel](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.parallel.DistributedDataParallel.html#torch.nn.parallel.DistributedDataParallel) (DDP) Class. In some cases, users funnel data over from other processes using a multiprocessing queue (or another communication primitive) to the main logging process.

> 2. **Many processes**: Initialize W&B ([`wandb.init`]({{< relref "/ref//python/init.md" >}})) and log experiments ([`wandb.log`]({{< relref "/ref//python/log.md" >}})) in every process. Each process is effectively a separate experiment. Use the `group` parameter when you initialize W&B (`wandb.init(group='group-name')`) to define a shared experiment and group the logged values together in the W&B App UI.

Reviewer 2: @ngrayluna - FYI Let's make sure we are keeping support + documentation for the older grouping method (i.e where you spin up an individual run and define them in a group). 

Because the new workflow is in experimental, and for example has performance limitations (no more than 400 parallel writers has been stress tested) we want to make sure we keep this as an option.

Author: @noaleetz It is. Content was moved, edited to reflect how the new process fits in with the overall narrative.

> * **Single process**: Track a rank 0 (also known as a "leader" or "coordinator") process with W&B. This is a common solution for logging distributed training experiments with the [PyTorch Distributed Data Parallel](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.parallel.DistributedDataParallel.html#torch.nn.parallel.DistributedDataParallel) (DDP) Class. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Single process**: Track a rank 0 process (also known as a "leader" or "coordinator" process) with W&B. This is a common solution for logging distributed training experiments with the [PyTorch Distributed Data Parallel](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.parallel.DistributedDataParallel.html#torch.nn.parallel.DistributedDataParallel) (DDP) Class. 
```

>    * Track each process separately using a different run for each process. Optionally group them together in the W&B App UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Track each process separately using one run per process. You can optionally group them together in the W&B App UI.
```

>    * Track all process to a single run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Track all processes to a single run.
```

<!-- The proceeding examples demonstrate how to track metrics with W&B using PyTorch DDP on two GPUs on a single machine. [PyTorch DDP](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/ddp_tutorial.html) (`DistributedDataParallel` in`torch.nn`) is a popular library for distributed training. The basic principles apply to any distributed training setup, but the details of implementation may differ.

{{% alert %}}
Explore the code behind these examples in the W&B GitHub examples repository [here](https://github.com/wandb/examples/tree/master/examples/pytorch/pytorch-ddp). Specifically, see the [`log-dpp.py`](https://github.com/wandb/examples/blob/master/examples/pytorch/pytorch-ddp/log-ddp.py) Python script for information on how to implement one process and many process methods.
{{% /alert %}} -->

## Single process

> In this method you track only values and metrics available to your rank 0 process. Within the rank 0 process, initialize a W&B run with [`wandb.init`]({{< relref "/ref//python/init.md" >}}) and log experiments ([`wandb.log`]({{< relref "/ref//python/log.md" >}})) to that run.

Reviewer: I don't love language like "In this method". It's kind of indirect and the word "method" is fairly overloaded. If this was a how-to section, I would probably make it action oriented: "To track only values and metrics....", but this is more of a description of the situation.

> Metrics from other nodes or processes, such as loss values or inputs from training batches, are not tracked. System metrics, such as usage and memory, are logged for all GPUs since that information is available to all processes.

Reviewer: "are not tracked" is a bit passive. Maybe "The experiment does not track"

> W&B does not track metrics from other nodes or processes, such as loss values or inputs from training batches. W&B does track system metrics, such as usage and memory, for all GPUs since that information is available to all processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
W&B tracks system metrics, such as usage and memory, for all GPUs since that information is available to all processes. W&B does not track metrics from other nodes or processes, such as loss values or inputs from training batches. 
```
Flipping these around to avoid the need for an intensifying "does".

{{% alert %}}

> **Use this method to only track metrics available from a single process**. Typical examples include GPU/CPU utilization, behavior on a shared validation set, gradients and parameters, and loss values on representative data examples.

Reviewer: Another "this method"

> **Use this approach to only track metrics available from a single process**. Typical examples include GPU/CPU utilization, behavior on a shared validation set, gradients and parameters, and loss values on representative data examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Use this approach to track only metrics that are available from a single process**. Typical metrics include GPU/CPU utilization, behavior on a shared validation set, gradients and parameters, and loss values on representative data examples.
```

{{% /alert %}}

> As an example, the following [sample Python script (`log-ddp.py`)](https://github.com/wandb/examples/blob/master/examples/pytorch/pytorch-ddp/log-ddp.py) demonstrate how to track metrics on two GPUs on a single machine using PyTorch DDP. [PyTorch DDP](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/ddp_tutorial.html) (`DistributedDataParallel` in`torch.nn`) is a popular library for distributed training. The basic principles apply to any distributed training setup, but the details of implementation may differ.

Reviewer: Worth using Prism, since youa re naming the example?

> As an example, the following [sample Python script (`log-ddp.py`)](https://github.com/wandb/examples/blob/master/examples/pytorch/pytorch-ddp/log-ddp.py) demonstrate how to track metrics on two GPUs on a single machine using PyTorch DDP. [PyTorch DDP](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/ddp_tutorial.html) (`DistributedDataParallel` in`torch.nn`) is a popular library for distributed training. The basic principles apply to any distributed training setup, but the details of implementation may differ.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example, the following [sample Python script (`log-ddp.py`)](https://github.com/wandb/examples/blob/master/examples/pytorch/pytorch-ddp/log-ddp.py) demonstrate how to track metrics on two GPUs on a single machine using PyTorch DDP. [PyTorch DDP](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/ddp_tutorial.html) (`DistributedDataParallel` in`torch.nn`) is a popular library for distributed training. The basic principles apply to any distributed training setup, but the implementation may differ.
```

> As an example, the following [sample Python script (`log-ddp.py`)](https://github.com/wandb/examples/blob/master/examples/pytorch/pytorch-ddp/log-ddp.py) demonstrates how to track metrics on two GPUs on a single machine using PyTorch DDP. [PyTorch DDP](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/ddp_tutorial.html) (`DistributedDataParallel` in`torch.nn`) is a popular library for distributed training. The basic principles apply to any distributed training setup, but the implementation may differ.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following [sample Python script (`log-ddp.py`)](https://github.com/wandb/examples/blob/master/examples/pytorch/pytorch-ddp/log-ddp.py) demonstrates one way to track metrics on two GPUs on a single machine using PyTorch DDP. [PyTorch DDP](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/ddp_tutorial.html) (`DistributedDataParallel` in`torch.nn`) is a popular library for distributed training. The basic principles apply to any distributed training setup, but the implementation may differ.
```

> The Python script first start multiple processes with `torch.distributed.launch`. Next, it checks the rank with the `--local_rank` command line argument. If the rank is set to 0, set up `wandb` logging conditionally in the [`train()`](https://github.com/wandb/examples/blob/master/examples/pytorch/pytorch-ddp/log-ddp.py#L24) function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Python script first starts multiple processes with `torch.distributed.launch`. Next, it checks the rank with the `--local_rank` command line argument. If the rank is set to 0, set up `wandb` logging conditionally in the [`train()`](https://github.com/wandb/examples/blob/master/examples/pytorch/pytorch-ddp/log-ddp.py#L24) function.
```
This would be more readable as a numbered list.

> The Python script first starts multiple processes with `torch.distributed.launch`. Next, it checks the rank with the `--local_rank` command line argument. If the rank is set to 0, set up `wandb` logging conditionally in the [`train()`](https://github.com/wandb/examples/blob/master/examples/pytorch/pytorch-ddp/log-ddp.py#L24) function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Python script:
1. Starts multiple processes with `torch.distributed.launch`.
1. Checks the rank with the `--local_rank` command line argument.
1. If the rank is set to 0, sets up `wandb` logging conditionally in the [`train()`](https://github.com/wandb/examples/blob/master/examples/pytorch/pytorch-ddp/log-ddp.py#L24) function.
```

This section describes how to track values and metrics available to your rank 0 process. Within the rank 0 process, initialize a W&B run with [`wandb.init`]({{< relref "/ref//python/init.md" >}}) and log experiments ([`wandb.log`]({{< relref "/ref//python/log.md" >}})) to that run.

W&B tracks system metrics, such as usage and memory, for all GPUs since that information is available to all processes. W&B does not track metrics from other nodes or processes, such as loss values or inputs, from training batches. 

{{% alert %}}
**Use this approach to track only metrics that are available from a single process**. Typical metrics include GPU/CPU utilization, behavior on a shared validation set, gradients and parameters, and loss values on representative data examples.

> {{% /alert %}}

Reviewer: The para before the alert is difficult to parse, and I feel that the first sentence is a run on. I think what you are trying to say is that  no action is needed to get system metrics for the process its node, but that processes on other nodes are opaque.

The details inside the alert partially duplicate the details about the types of metrics. I am not sure that the detail about typical metrics belongs in an alert.

The following [sample Python script (`log-ddp.py`)](https://github.com/wandb/examples/blob/master/examples/pytorch/pytorch-ddp/log-ddp.py) demonstrates one way to track metrics on two GPUs on a single machine using PyTorch DDP. [PyTorch DDP](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/ddp_tutorial.html) (`DistributedDataParallel` in`torch.nn`) is a popular library for distributed training. The basic principles apply to any distributed training setup, but the implementation may differ.

The Python script:
1. Starts multiple processes with `torch.distributed.launch`.
1. Checks the rank with the `--local_rank` command line argument.
1. If the rank is set to 0, sets up `wandb` logging conditionally in the [`train()`](https://github.com/wandb/examples/blob/master/examples/pytorch/pytorch-ddp/log-ddp.py#L24) function.

> ```python

Reviewer: I still think this might be better to use the Prism shortcode since you explicitly name the script here. You can grep around for some examples.

        train(args)
```

> Explore this example dashboard in the W&B App UI to [view metrics tracked from a single process](https://wandb.ai/ayush-thakur/DDP/runs/1s56u3hc/system). The dashboard displays system metrics such as temperature and utilization, that were tracked for both GPUs.

Reviewer: I'd prefer for the link to come earlier, maybe the link text could be "an example dashboard".

The last sentence is a bit of a jumble. I'd wish for something like "The dashboard displays system metrics for both GPUs, such as temperature and utilization."

{{< img src="/images/track/distributed_training_method1.png" alt="" >}}

However, the loss values as a function epoch and batch size were only logged from a single GPU.

{{< img src="/images/experiments/loss_function_single_gpu.png" alt="" >}}

> 

Reviewer: Alt text :)

        train(args)
```

> Explore this example dashboard in the W&B App UI to [view metrics tracked from a single process](https://wandb.ai/ayush-thakur/DDP/runs/1s56u3hc/system). The dashboard displays system metrics for both GPUs, such as temperature and utilization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explore an [example dashboard showing metrics tracked from a single process](https://wandb.ai/ayush-thakur/DDP/runs/1s56u3hc/system).

The dashboard displays system metrics for both GPUs, such as temperature and utilization.
```
Splitting this up helps with the "However" sentence below and with the interspersed images.

{{< img src="/images/track/distributed_training_method1.png" alt="Workspace that shows four line plot panels. From left to right the plots are: GPU Utilization (%), GPU Temp (C), GPU Time Spent Accessing Memory (%), and GPU Memory Allocated (%)" >}}

However, the loss values as a function epoch and batch size were only logged from a single GPU.

{{< img src="/images/experiments/loss_function_single_gpu.png" alt="Two line plot panels in an example workspace. The left plot shows the loss measured as a function of step. The right plot show the loss recorded at each batch." >}}

## Track multiple processes

> 

Reviewer: Ideally you'd have a sentence here explaining what the subsections are about, or you would skip this H2 and promote the ones below from H3 to H2. Skimming the structure of the rest of the page, I bet the promotion option would be fine.

The preceding image demonstrates the W&B App UI dashboard. On the sidebar we see two experiments. One labeled 'null' and a second (bound by a yellow box) called 'DPP'. If you expand the group (select the Group dropdown) you will see the W&B Runs that are associated to that experiment.

> ### Track all processes to a single run

Reviewer 2: Can we add a banner [as discussed](https://weightsandbiases.slack.com/archives/C081QT67T35/p1743013847199419?thread_ts=1742587252.937509&cid=C081QT67T35) denoting that this in public preview? Similar to the banner used in rewind docs?

> In this approach you use a primary node and one or more work nodes. Within the primary node you initialize a W&B run. That primary node then spawns additional worker nodes. Each worker node logs to the same run ID as the primary node. The W&B App UI aggregates these metrics, enabling you to see data from all processes in one place.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this approach you use a primary node and one or more worker nodes. Within the primary node you initialize a W&B run. That primary node then spawns additional worker nodes. Each worker node logs to the same run ID as the primary node. The W&B App UI aggregates these metrics, enabling you to see data from all processes in one place.
```

> Use `wandb.Settings` to set both the `mode` parameter to `"shared"` and to specify a unique rank for each node with the `x_label` parameter. For the primary node, set `x_label` to 0 and and `x_primary` to `True`. For the worker nodes, set `x_label` to 1, 2, etc. and `x_primary` to `False`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use `wandb.Settings` to set both the `mode` parameter to `"shared"` and to specify a unique label for each node with the `x_label` parameter. For the primary node, for example, you might set `x_label` to "rank0" and and `x_primary` to `True`. For the worker nodes, for example, you might set `x_label` to "rank1", "rank2", etc. and `x_primary` to `False`.

In shared mode, if you do not specify `x_label`, a label will be auto-generated based on the hostname. 
```

Reviewer 2: Can we break down these 3 different settings in a bit more detail:
- x_label
- x_primary
- mode="shared"

it doesn't make it very clear why a user should be setting them. This is the main new feature set.

Reviewer 2: An important piece to call out is that a label will allow you to break down your system metrics and console logs by specific label. 

This is a good resource to help add some of these details - https://www.notion.so/wandbai/How-does-a-user-use-wandb-s-Multi-Process-APIs-18de2f5c7ef38028bd25e8bfd5978b4d?pvs=4#18de2f5c7ef38075b546ebc191747a93

The other run setting to explain here would be - x_update_finish_state

> Each process requires the run ID of the primary node. Consider using an environment variable to set the run ID of the primary node that you can then define in each worker node's machine.

Reviewer 2: I think the workflow we would advise is to randomly generated (i.e let W&B pick) the run ID for the first time you call wandb.init, and then make sure you attach it it to all other processes. 

If you forget to reset the env var in between experiments you will keep writing to the same run and will not be able to compare between runs.

The following sample code demonstrates the high level requirements for this approach:

```python
import os
import wandb

wandb_run_id = os.environ.get("WANDB_RUN_ID", "default_run_id")

# user calls init in primary node
run = wandb.init(
    entity="entity",
    project="project",

> 	settings=wandb.Settings(x_label=0, mode="shared"),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	settings=wandb.Settings(x_label=0, mode="shared"),
```
recommended labels would most likely be rank0, rank1, etc. not just the digit

	id=wandb_run_id
    x_primary=True,
)

# user calls init in worker node 1
run = wandb.init(
	settings=wandb.Settings(x_label=1, mode="shared"),
	id=wandb_run_id,
    x_primary=False,
)

# user calls init in workder node 2
run = wandb.init(
	settings=wandb.Settings(x_label=2, mode="shared"),
	id=wandb_run_id,
    x_primary=True,
)
```

{{% alert %}}
See this report for an end-to-end example on how to [train a model on a multi-node multi-GPU Kubernetes cluster in GKE](https://wandb.ai/dimaduev/simple-cnn-ddp/reports/Distributed-Training-with-Shared-Mode--VmlldzoxMTI0NTE1NA). 
{{% /alert %}}

> You can view console logs that your multi process creates in the project that contains your run.

Reviewer 2: We show also call out that your system metrics can also be broken down and filtered by the label - [link](https://wandb.ai/wandb/demo-multiple-ranks/runs/jeq69ubu?nw=nwusernoaschwartzwandb&panelDisplayName=Disk+Utilization+%28GB%29&panelSectionName=System) to example panel
<img width="1281" alt="Screenshot 2025-04-10 at 1 53 01 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ac88b7fc-0878-4a76-b241-651a8b3328e3" />
<img width="1282" alt="Screenshot 2025-04-10 at 1 55 02 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d9897cdc-4351-47cf-9727-ecf58e4c4e61" />

For example - here I am filtering in only ranks 1-3 for Y values

1. Navigate to the project that contains the run.
2. Click on the **Runs** tab in the left sidebar.
3. Click on the run you want to view.

> 4. Click on the **Logs** tab in the left sidebar.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Click on the **Logs** tab in the left sidebar.
```
can we make sure to show the new filtering experience in the console logs? If you are in shared mode, or define custom labels via x_label - your console logs will have a filter bar so you can only filter in specific labels. This is one of the main values of the feature. Can we show a gif, for example like the one below?  

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b98943fd-68de-44e2-a893-f30b65571068

[Here](https://wandb.ai/wandb/demo-multiple-ranks/runs/jeq69ubu/logs) is an example logs page that I made public in "wandb" entity if helpful to create a gif or if we want to share it

Author: Let's file a ticket to add info on filtering console logs and link that as a fast follow to this public preview PR. (Re: Filtering console logs should exist in the general docs (not hidden in Distributed logging).

Reviewer 2: Hmmm... I think we definitely to include it in this version. These will be the docs we're linking from the multi-node console logs - the filtering is only applicable if you are in a distributed setup, specifically mode="shared". If you are not in this mode the filtering will not be applicable to you. 

For context - if you are in this shared mode we show a banner that notes that we can break your console logs out by label, and have a link to the docs to explain what exactly this means.

Author: What I'm thinking is that we have a dedicated page about console logs in general. Currently there are no docs on console logs.

In it, we have a dedicated section that describes filtering logs if you have a multi-node process. And we'd link to that page for info on console logs.  From the UI, this just means having a different URL instead of the one pointing to this doc.

For now I added an image more context. For maintainability, we avoid using gifs as much as possible.

The preceding image demonstrates the W&B App UI dashboard. On the sidebar we see two experiments. One labeled 'null' and a second (bound by a yellow box) called 'DPP'. If you expand the group (select the Group dropdown) you will see the W&B Runs that are associated to that experiment.

### Track all processes to a single run

{{% alert color="secondary"  %}}

> The option to track multiple processes to a single run is in public preview.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The run settings used in the following workflow, include `mode="shared"` are in public preview. They are denoted with an "x_" prefix accordingly. Users can share feedback by opening a [Github issue](https://github.com/wandb/wandb/issues).  
```

{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert %}}
To track multiple processes to a single run, you must have W&B Python SDK version `>=0.19.0`.
{{% /alert  %}}

In this approach you use a primary node and one or more worker nodes. Within the primary node you initialize a W&B run. For each worker node, initialize a run using the run ID used by the primary node. During training each worker node logs to the same run ID as the primary node. W&B aggregates metrics from all nodes and displays them in the W&B App UI.

Within the primary node, initialize a W&B run with [`wandb.init`]({{< relref "/ref/python/init.md" >}}) and provide the following:

1. A `wandb.Settings` object to the `settings` parameter (`wandb.init(settings=wandb.Settings()`) with:
   * The `mode` parameter set to `"shared"` to enable shared mode.
   * A unique label for `x_label`. You use the value you specify for `x_label` to identify which process the data is coming from in logs and system metrics in the W&B App UI.

> 2. Set the `x_primary` parameter to `True` to indicate that this is the primary node.

Reviewer 2: this is still missing details of what behavior happens when you indicate something is in primary mode.

Reviewer 2: https://www.notion.so/wandbai/How-does-a-user-use-wandb-s-Multi-Process-APIs-18de2f5c7ef38028bd25e8bfd5978b4d?pvs=4#18de2f5c7ef380008e16fff5c8b50895

The preceding image demonstrates the W&B App UI dashboard. On the sidebar we see two experiments. One labeled 'null' and a second (bound by a yellow box) called 'DPP'. If you expand the group (select the Group dropdown) you will see the W&B Runs that are associated to that experiment.

### Track all processes to a single run

{{% alert color="secondary"  %}}
Parameters prefixed by `x_` (such as `x_label`) are in public preview. Create a GitHub issue at [https://github.com/wandb/wandb](https://github.com/wandb/wandb) to provide feedback.
{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert %}}

> To track multiple processes to a single run, you must have W&B Python SDK version `>=0.19.0`.

Reviewer 2: this is also has a server release constraints - https://weightsandbiases.slack.com/archives/C081QT67T35/p1744344727024289

Author: Noted. Waiting on confirmation from thread.

3. Click on the run you want to view.
4. Click on the **Logs** tab in the left sidebar.

You can filter console logs based on the labels you provide for `x_label` in the UI search bar located at the top of the console log page. For example, the following image shows which options are available to filter the console log by if values  `rank0`, `rank1`, `rank2`, `rank3`, `rank4`, `rank5`, and `rank6` are provided to `x_label`.` 

{{< img src="/images/track/multi_node_console_logs.png" alt="Console logs from multiple nodes with the x_label filter applied." >}}

W&B aggregates system metrics from all nodes and displays them in the W&B App UI. For example, the following image shows a sample dashboard with system metrics from multiple nodes. Each node possesses a unique label (`rank_0`, `rank_1`, `rank_2`) that you specify in the `x_label` parameter.

{{< img src="/images/track/multi_node_system_metrics.png" alt="Line plot panel with numerous semi linear lines depicting system metrics logged by a multi node process." >}}

See [Line plots]({{< relref "/guides/models/app/features/panels/line-plot/" >}}) for information on how to customize line plot panels. 

> ## Avoid common distributed training issues with W&B Service

Reviewer: This might be better as "Troubleshooting" or "Antipatterns" or something more terse. It seems like it should go after the Examples below.

   * The `mode` parameter set to `"shared"` to enable shared mode.
   * A unique label for `x_label`. You use the value you specify for `x_label` to identify which process the data is coming from in logs and system metrics in the W&B App UI.
2. Set the `x_primary` parameter to `True` to indicate that this is the primary node.

Make note of the run ID of the primary node. Each worker node needs the run ID of the primary node.

{{% alert %}}
`x_primary=True` distinguishes a primary node from worker nodes. Primary nodes are the only nodes that upload files shared across nodes such as configuration files, telemetry and more. Worker nodes do not upload these files.
{{% /alert %}}

For each worker node, initialize a W&B run with [`wandb.init`]({{< relref "/ref/python/init.md" >}}) and provide the following:
1. A `wandb.Settings` object to the `settings` parameter (`wandb.init(settings=wandb.Settings()`) with:
   * The `mode` parameter set to `"shared"` to enable shared mode.
   * A unique label for `x_label`. You use the value you specify for `x_label` to identify which process the data is coming from in logs and system metrics in the W&B App UI.

> 2. Set the `x_primary` parameter to `False` to indicate that this is a worker node.

Reviewer 2: x_primary is also defined in the settings - https://github.com/wandb/wandb/blob/07c45883c3287545b8618e5546f52f4d85a2109c/wandb/sdk/wandb_settings.py#L660

> 3. Pass the run ID of the primary node to the `id` parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Pass the same run ID used for the primary node to the `id` parameter.
```

4. Optionally set `x_update_finish_state` to `False`. This prevents non-primary nodes from updating the [run's state]({{< relref "/guides/models/track/runs/#run-states" >}}) to `finished` prematurely, ensuring the run state remains consistent and managed by the primary node.

{{% alert %}}
Consider using an environment variable to set the run ID of the primary node that you can then define in each worker node's machine.
{{% /alert %}}

The following sample code demonstrates the high level requirements for tracking multiple processes to a single run:

```python
import wandb

# Initialize a run in the primary node
run = wandb.init(
    entity="entity",
    project="project",
	settings=wandb.Settings(x_label="rank_0", mode="shared"),

>     x_primary=True,

Reviewer 2: x_primary is also a setting, not an arg to wandb.init - https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1GOOYcvAaHY8cgi1oHEUJqgd--oWl4QXO#scrollTo=gBPEe8nzzrXb&line=37&uniqifier=1

)

# Note the run ID of the primary node.
# Each worker node needs this run ID.
run_id = run.id

# Initialize a run in a worker node using the run ID of the primary node
run = wandb.init(
	settings=wandb.Settings(x_label="rank_1", mode="shared"),
	id=run_id,
    x_primary=False,
)

# Initialize a run in a worker node using the run ID of the primary node
run = wandb.init(
	settings=wandb.Settings(x_label="rank_2", mode="shared"),
	id=run_id,
    x_primary=True,
)
```

{{% alert %}}
See this report for an end-to-end example on how to [train a model on a multi-node multi-GPU Kubernetes cluster in GKE](https://wandb.ai/dimaduev/simple-cnn-ddp/reports/Distributed-Training-with-Shared-Mode--VmlldzoxMTI0NTE1NA). 
{{% /alert %}}

View console logs from multi node processes in the project that the run logs to:

1. Navigate to the project that contains the run.
2. Click on the **Runs** tab in the left sidebar.
3. Click on the run you want to view.
4. Click on the **Logs** tab in the left sidebar.

> You can filter console logs based on the labels you provide for `x_label` in the UI search bar located at the top of the console log page. For example, the following image shows which options are available to filter the console log by if values  `rank0`, `rank1`, `rank2`, `rank3`, `rank4`, `rank5`, and `rank6` are provided to `x_label`.` 

Reviewer 2: Note that if the user doesn't pass in a label when in shared mode, we will auto-generate a label using the hostname and a random hash

The preceding image demonstrates the W&B App UI dashboard. On the sidebar we see two experiments. One labeled 'null' and a second (bound by a yellow box) called 'DPP'. If you expand the group (select the Group dropdown) you will see the W&B Runs that are associated to that experiment.

### Track all processes to a single run

{{% alert color="secondary"  %}}
Parameters prefixed by `x_` (such as `x_label`) are in public preview. Create a GitHub issue at [https://github.com/wandb/wandb](https://github.com/wandb/wandb) to provide feedback.
{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert %}}

> To track multiple processes to a single run, you must have W&B Python SDK version `>=0.19.5`.

Reviewer 2: missing server release requirement

1. The `mode` parameter set to `"shared"` to enable shared mode.
2. A unique label for `x_label`. You use the value you specify for `x_label` to identify which node the data is coming from in logs and system metrics in the W&B App UI. If left unspecified, W&B creates a label for you using the hostname and a random hash.
3. Set the `x_primary` parameter to `True` to indicate that this is the primary node.

Make note of the run ID of the primary node. Each worker node needs the run ID of the primary node.

{{% alert %}}
`x_primary=True` distinguishes a primary node from worker nodes. Primary nodes are the only nodes that upload files shared across nodes such as configuration files, telemetry and more. Worker nodes do not upload these files.
{{% /alert %}}

For each worker node, initialize a W&B run with [`wandb.init`]({{< relref "/ref/python/init.md" >}}) and provide the following:
1. A `wandb.Settings` object to the `settings` parameter (`wandb.init(settings=wandb.Settings()`) with:
   * The `mode` parameter set to `"shared"` to enable shared mode.

>    * A unique label for `x_label`. You use the value you specify for `x_label` to identify which node the data is coming from in logs and system metrics in the W&B App UI. If left unspecified, W&B creates a label for you using the hostname and a random hash.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * A unique label for `[x_label](https://github.com/wandb/wandb/blob/6cf0e1d5e1da665dd0ce4691ae77fba85a56c5c9/wandb/sdk/wandb_settings.py#L638)`. You use the value you specify for `x_label` to identify which node the data is coming from in logs and system metrics in the W&B App UI. If left unspecified, W&B creates a label for you using the hostname and a random hash.
```

>    * Set the `x_primary` parameter to `False` to indicate that this is a worker node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * Set the `[x_primary](https://github.com/wandb/wandb/blob/6cf0e1d5e1da665dd0ce4691ae77fba85a56c5c9/wandb/sdk/wandb_settings.py#L660)` parameter to `False` to indicate that this is a worker node.
```

2. Pass the run ID used by the primary node to the `id` parameter.

> 3. Optionally set `x_update_finish_state` to `False`. This prevents non-primary nodes from updating the [run's state]({{< relref "/guides/models/track/runs/#run-states" >}}) to `finished` prematurely, ensuring the run state remains consistent and managed by the primary node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Optionally set `[x_update_finish_state](https://github.com/wandb/wandb/blob/6cf0e1d5e1da665dd0ce4691ae77fba85a56c5c9/wandb/sdk/wandb_settings.py#L766)` to `False`. This prevents non-primary nodes from updating the [run's state]({{< relref "/guides/models/track/runs/#run-states" >}}) to `finished` prematurely, ensuring the run state remains consistent and managed by the primary node.
```

{{% alert %}}
Consider using an environment variable to set the run ID of the primary node that you can then define in each worker node's machine.
{{% /alert %}}

The following sample code demonstrates the high level requirements for tracking multiple processes to a single run:

```python
import wandb

# Initialize a run in the primary node
run = wandb.init(
    entity="entity",
    project="project",
	settings=wandb.Settings(x_label="rank_0", mode="shared", x_primary=True)
)

# Note the run ID of the primary node.
# Each worker node needs this run ID.
run_id = run.id

# Initialize a run in a worker node using the run ID of the primary node
run = wandb.init(
	settings=wandb.Settings(x_label="rank_1", mode="shared", x_primary=False),
	id=run_id,
)

# Initialize a run in a worker node using the run ID of the primary node
run = wandb.init(

> 	settings=wandb.Settings(x_label="rank_2", mode="shared", x_primary=True),

Reviewer 2: why is this set to true? not a primary node

### Track all processes to a single run

{{% alert color="secondary"  %}}
Parameters prefixed by `x_` (such as `x_label`) are in public preview. Create a GitHub issue at [https://github.com/wandb/wandb](https://github.com/wandb/wandb) to provide feedback.
{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert %}}

> To track multiple processes to a single run, you must have W&B Python SDK version `>=0.19.5`.

Reviewer: This might be better as "v0.19.5 or newer" or something like that rather than the math shorthand.

{{% /alert  %}}

In this approach you use a primary node and one or more worker nodes. Within the primary node you initialize a W&B run. For each worker node, initialize a run using the run ID used by the primary node. During training each worker node logs to the same run ID as the primary node. W&B aggregates metrics from all nodes and displays them in the W&B App UI.

Within the primary node, initialize a W&B run with [`wandb.init`]({{< relref "/ref/python/init.md" >}}). Pass in a `wandb.Settings` object to the `settings` parameter (`wandb.init(settings=wandb.Settings()`) wit with the following:

1. The `mode` parameter set to `"shared"` to enable shared mode.

> 2. A unique label for [`x_label`](https://github.com/wandb/wandb/blob/6cf0e1d5e1da665dd0ce4691ae77fba85a56c5c9/wandb/sdk/wandb_settings.py#L638). You use the value you specify for `x_label` to identify which node the data is coming from in logs and system metrics in the W&B App UI. If left unspecified, W&B creates a label for you using the hostname and a random hash.

Reviewer: Try to avoid linking to a SHA. Can you just link to `main`? Also a few lines down.

Author: ooops. Good catch

   * A unique label for `x_label`. You use the value you specify for `x_label` to identify which node the data is coming from in logs and system metrics in the W&B App UI. If left unspecified, W&B creates a label for you using the hostname and a random hash.
   * Set the `x_primary` parameter to `False` to indicate that this is a worker node.
2. Pass the run ID used by the primary node to the `id` parameter.
3. Optionally set [`x_update_finish_state`](https://github.com/wandb/wandb/blob/6cf0e1d5e1da665dd0ce4691ae77fba85a56c5c9/wandb/sdk/wandb_settings.py#L766) to `False`. This prevents non-primary nodes from updating the [run's state]({{< relref "/guides/models/track/runs/#run-states" >}}) to `finished` prematurely, ensuring the run state remains consistent and managed by the primary node.

{{% alert %}}

> Consider using an environment variable to set the run ID of the primary node that you can then define in each worker node's machine.

Reviewer: Does this need to be an alert? This page has a lot of alerts.

Set the `WANDB_START_METHOD` environment variable to `"thread"` to use multithreading instead if you use a W&B SDK version 0.12.4 and below.

> ## Example use cases for multiprocessing

Reviewer 2: the 2 main use caes would be:
- 1 training job distributed on multiple nodes or GPUs - https://www.notion.so/wandbai/PRD-Distributed-Training-in-wandb-129e2f5c7ef38001801ec5298a70836e?pvs=4#129e2f5c7ef3802e9d58ec1e101ca653
- 1 main training process with async eval processes - https://www.notion.so/wandbai/Shared-Mode-for-training-eval-runs-customer-use-cases-160e2f5c7ef380399c9cce251250d2e1?pvs=4

Reviewer 2: should this be resolved?

> ## Example use cases for multiprocessing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example use cases
```

    main()
```

### Share a run

> Pass a W&B run object as an argument to share runs between processes:

Reviewer: You capitalize Run up in line 228 but not here. This doesn't feel to me like a use case exactly.

Author: Oops. Both should be lower case. Fixed.
